---
layout: post
title: Module 5 - Quiz 4
---

1. **How is the topology of a configuration space relevant to motion planning?**
    A configuration space is a topological space, therefore we can concisely describe the C-space of a robot using terminology from topology. This allows us to ignore differences in the construction of spaces that don’t affect certain properties. The C-Space topology of a 2-Revolute-joint robot arm is represented by a torus, which is represented by two joint-angle coordinates between 
    0 and 2. When the configuration of the torus moves smoothly, the coordinate representation changes discontinuously at[0, 2)[0,2). In Figure 53, the robot arm’s movement (left) is shown on the torus (middle), and the coordinate representation jumps from one edge of the coordinate square to the other (right).

    Figure 53. My Sketch that Illustrates 2-Revolute-Joint Arm Movement on a Torus


2. **Define homeomorphism, diffeomorphism, manifold, differentiable manifold, and homotopy class.** 
    Homeomorphism is a mapping from one set to another which is a continuous bijection. Two sets are homeomorphic iff this mapping exists. This is a type of continuous transformation found in topology and can be best visualized by squishing a coffee mug into a donut, as seen in Figure 50. A manifold is a set which is locally homeomorphic to ℝk. Diffeomorphism is a smooth mapping from one set to another which is a continuous bijection. Two sets are diffeomorphic iff this mapping exists. A differentiable manifold is a set which is locally diffeomorphic to to ℝk. 

    Figure 54. Homeomorphic and Diffeomorphic Shapes (Source: Parasol Laboratory)

    Homotopic classes are those in which, given two topological spaces X and Y, place an equivalence relationship on the continuous maps f : X  Y using homotopies. The two spaces
    X and Y are homotopically equivalent if they can be transformed into one another by bending, shrinking, and expanding. 
    An example of homotopy is the case of continuous maps from one circle to another circle. Suppose you have an infinitely stretchable string that can be tied around a tree. The string can be stretched to be the first circle S1, and the tree trunk’s surface is the second circle S1. There are many ways to tie the rope around the tree. For any integer n, the string can be wrapped around the tree n times. Each integer n corresponds to a homotopy class of maps from f: S1  S1 (Wolfram MathWorld, 2023).

    Figure 55. A Continuous Map from One Circle to Another Circle. The circled rope is homotopically equivalent to the circled tree trunk it is wrapped around.

3. **Considering homeomorphism, how many holes does a shirt have? What about pants? Socks?** 

    Figure 56. A Cup Without a Handle. The cup opening only lets you pour drinks inside the enclosed cup. However, your drink cannot spill through the other side of the cup because there is no hole at the bottom due to the sealed-shut glass. Thus, the handleless cup has 0 holes. Apply this logic to a sock.

    Figure 57. A Sock. The sock opening only allows you to put your foot inside the enclosed sock. Likewise, you cannot put your foot through the other side of the sock because there is no hole at the bottom of it due to the sewn-shut fabric. Thus, a sock has 0 holes. 

    Figure 58. A Coffee Mug. Add a handle to a handleless cup. Now you have a coffee mug, a completely different object according to a topologist! The handle makes the topology of a mug distinct from the topology of a cup.

    Figure 59. A Body of Water Passing Through the Handle of a Coffee Mug. Tilt the mug on its side, aim the cup at the mug’s handle, and pour the cup’s drink inside the mug handle’s hole. Look, the water is falling through the other side of the handle! AHA, the mug’s handle is a hole! Thus, a coffee mug has one hole.

    Figure 60. A Coffee Mug and a Donut. Like a coffee mug, a donut also has one hole. Below, the coffee mug and donuts are displayed by passing their singular hole through a hanging hook and a pastry tray pole, respectively. A reason that the topology of the C-space is important is that if we can derive a motion planning algorithm for one topological space, the algorithm can carry over to other spaces that are topologically equivalent (Choset et al, 2005). So, if we want to create a funky motion plan to put a donut on a hook or a coffee mug handle on a pastry tray pole, we know that a possible solution can exist! 

    Given what we observed in Figure 56 through Figure 60, we can logically conclude that the opening spaces of a pants or shirt is not a hole, it simply allows us to enter the geometric space of the clothes. In pants, the first hole is for the left leg and the second hole is for the right leg. Thus, pants have two holes. In a shirt, the first hole is for the cranium to go through, the second hole is for the left arm, and the third hole is for the right arm. Thus, a shirt has three holes.


4. **Use this information to answer questions 4 a-c:**
Imagine you have a robot with a mobile base and a jointed manipulator attached at the top, as in the following figure. Assume the base can only move in one dimension (along a straight line) and the manipulator only has one revolute joint (which can freely move in a circle).


Figure 61. A robot with a Mobile Base and Single Revolute Joint

**4a. What is the shape of the C-Space for this robot?** 
    The shape of the C-Space for the robot in Figure 61 is a cylinder. I added some motion and arrows to each pair of robot and cylinder in Figure 63 to visualize their topological relationship.

    Figure 62. Topologically Equivalent 1-Revolute-Joint Mobile Robot and Cylinder. 

**4b. How would you specify the coordinates of a configuration in this C-space?**
    I would specify the configuration with one coordinate ranging between 0 and 2  and represent it as ℝ1[0,2). 

**4c. How could you compute the distance between two configurations in this space?**
    I would cut the cylinder to get a square subset of the plane in order to get the coordinates of the two configurations and use distance metric formulas to compute the distance between them.

    Figure 63. Cutting Cylinder to get Square Subset of Plane. 



    