---
layout: post
title: Module 3 - Experiment 3
---

# Experiment 3: Varying the Connection Techniques for PRMs
This experiment addresses how the value of k-nearest neighbors affects the connectivity of PRMs. 

**Hypothesis:** A higher k-value will improve the connectivity of a roadmap and will make the runtime faster. 
Procedures

The CfgExamples.xml file has a “k” tag that represents the k-neighbors used by Brute Force Neighborhood Finders (BFNF). 

> < BruteForceNF label="BFNF" dmLabel="euclidean" unconnected="false" k="1" />

I ran six independent PRM planner tests, where each test takes in a distinct k value of 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32. The files generated for each test will be renamed after the k value used. The k=1 test file was renamed k1.map and k1.stat, the k=16 test file was renamed k16.map and k16.stat, and so on. Below are all the output files I collected from all my experiment tests.



## Data


Figure 43. PRM Experiment Results with Varying K-Nearest Neighbor Values

I separated my data into three files for CDs, edges, and Connected Components (CCs) and added them to my GNU graphing script.


Figure 44. Data from Figure 43 Divided into Three Files for GNU 
Results

Figure 45. PRM Experiment Results for Edges Generated with Different k-Values
     
Figure 46. PRM Experiment Results for Collision Detection Calls 
Generated with Different k-Values


Figure 47. PRM Experiment Results for Connected Components 
Generated with Different k-Values

     A higher k-value significantly improved the connectivity of a roadmap and reduced the distinct connected components towards 1 unified path. However, my hypothesis was partially correct: a higher k-value does improve connectivity. However, the run time increases as the k-value increases because it takes more time to produce higher counts of edges and compute less connected components with those edges. A trade-off to using a higher k-value is a more connected roadmap at a higher computationally expensive cost.
