---
layout: post
title: Module 1 - Quiz 1
---

1. **Name five applications of motion planning.**
    - Robotics
    - Graphic Animation
    - Medical Surgery
    - Virtual Prototyping
    - Computational Biology.

2. **Name four types of MP Algorithms.**
    1. Probabilistic Roadmap (PRM), 
    2. RRT, 
    3. OBPRM (Nancy's algorithm), 
    4. Multi-Agent Motion Planning (MAMP).

3. **What motivated the introduction of randomized planning algorithms such as PRMs and RRTs?** 
    For motion planning problems to be successful, they have to run in exponential time. However, previous algorithms had difficulties solving larger problems because the cost was too high to pay. Problems with simple obstacles had complex C-obst, C-spaces had high dimensions, and we needed something that was practical in computing the C-free space of robots with many-DOFs. Computer scientists introduced randomized planning algorithms as a way to approximate motion planning solutions in a significantly more efficient complexity: polynomial time. Although PRMs and RRTs can’t completely decide motion planning problems, they remain useful in more complex, increased dimensional C-space.

4. **Name 2 features of MP problems that do not have full heuristic or algorithmic solutions. What properties of an environment or robots greatly increase the "hardness" of an MP problem?**
     Open problems in motion planning that do not yet have full  heuristic or algorithm solutions includes (1) planning paths for robots moving in environments with narrow pathways between obstacles without colliding into them and (2) planning paths for multiple robot agents to move together at the same time without colliding with each other. If you combine those issues together, it would be really complex to solve a motion planning problem with multiple robots traveling along an environment with many narrow pathways and limited free space. <br>

     Robots traveling along a narrow passage was a major motion planning problem in the past. However, narrow passages increase the hardness of a motion planning problem, there are great algorithms that can solve this problem such as OBPRM (Amato, 1998). Another property that increases a motion planning problem is when a robot has many DOFs. For example, planning the motion of a nonholonomic walking robot that looks like a human and must be programmed to walk human-like.



