---
layout: post
title: Week 1 - Module 0
---

This week, I worked on the Parasol Laboratory crash course Module 0. For Module 0, I read two required papers:
How to Read a Paper (Keshav, 2007) and Motion Planning: A Journey of Robots, Molecules, Digital Actors, and Other Artifacts (Latombe, 1999). I 
created my own Parasol Laboratoy web page. To access my professional website, click [here](https://parasollab.web.illinois.edu/people/aec4/). I also attended the weekly crash-course meetings, which occur on Mondays and Thursdays.

On "How to Read a Paper", I was surprised to see some of the different ways that exist to read a paper. There seems to be an algorithm for everything,
even on how to read research papers methodologically, efficiently, and effectively. I learned that you don't HAVE TO read a research paper word for word from start to finish right off the bat. Instead, tackle a research paper in passes. In the first pass, you only read the abstract, the titles and subtitles of each section, and the conclusion. This should take about 5-10 minutes. The second pass is to look at all the graphs, results diagrams, images and all the captions. This shows details on what the research will be experimenting, if the data seems realisitc and reliable, and can give you a clue if this is a good research paper. The third pass is actually reading the paper, but the cool part is that you can stop reading it anytime if you think the content is not relevant to your research area. I've applied this way of thinking when reading my research papers. Giving a first and second pass on my required readings before tackling the enitre thing has made technical reading much easier for me.

On "Motion Planning: A Journey of Robots, Molecules, Digital Actors, and Other Artifacts" (Latombe, 1999), I learned about the history of motion planning and how it has many applications, not just robotics. Motion planning is used for graphic animation and videogames, medical surgery, virtual protoyping, manufacturing, computational biology. The most known motion-planning algorithms are the Probabilistic Road Map (PRM) / PRM*, RRT /  RRT*, and Multi-Agent Motion Planning (MAMP). Applied search and Distance computation algorithms include the A* algorithm and Dijkstra's algorithm.

This week, I also had to briefly research one of the motion-plannig applications I listed above. I chose to learn more about
graphic animation, specifically in video games. You can read more about this in my other Week 1 entry. 
