---
layout: post
title: Steps 1 and 2 - Find the Research Paper that Introduced the AdaptiveConnector.h and Read it
---

This week, I completed Step 1 and Step 2 of my [Refactoring Plan](https://cabreraleon.github.io/ANCrefactorplan/).

<br>

### Step 1. Find research paper that introduced the AdaptiveConnector.h. 

 The AdaptiveConnector.h code in the Parasol Planning Library was introduced in *Adaptive neighbor connection for PRMs: A Natural Fit for Heterogeneous Environments and Parallelism* by Chinwe Ekenna, Sam Ade Jacobs, Shawna Thomas, and Nancy M. Amato. It was presented at the IEEE International Conference on Intelligent Robot Systems (IROS), in Tokyo, Japan on November 2013. This code is almost 10 years old!

  Access to the Research: 
  [Ekenna et al (2013) Paper](files/ancreport.pdf)

  Access to the Presentation: [Ekenna et al (2013) Slides](https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/5245/4b4c1bebdc6befd78376b9c9a3cf713c860e.pdf)

<br>

### Step 2. Read the research paper.

 The ANC method was developed for motion planning in heterogeneous environments and parallel machines as a response to how infeasible it can be for humans to hand-pick the best connector method for PRM variants at each step of a motion planning problem. In heterogeneous environments, different algorithm choices may apply for different regions. In parallel processing, subdivision is often used to increase parallelism so each region can be processed independently. Manually selecting a single connector across all problems can lead to poor performance overall. We need a way to intelligently select the best connector automatically depending on the problem at hand and its input. This problem inspired Ekenna et al to develop the ANC algorithm.

 Previous works relevant to the ANC method are Hybrid PRMs. In previous research experiments, hybrid PRMs have used more than one sampling strategy and adaptively learns which sampler to use over time. The ANC works similarly but applies this methodology only in the connection phase. Relevant work also included research on four candidate neighborhood selection methods that have already been used by PRMs in the past.

 #### Candidate Neighborhood Selection Methods:

   1. **k-closest** selects k number of closest nodes from a sampled node using a distance metric. An advantage is nodes have a higher chance to be connected by a local planner because the 2. 2. C-space volume occupied by the connector is smaller. <br>
   
   2. **R-closest** selects all the nodes within a radius r of the sampled node using a distance metric. <br>

   3. **K-Closest, K-Rand** randomly selects k neighbors from k2 closest nodes where k2 = 3*k. <br>

   4. **R-Closest, K-Rand** randomly selects k random neighbors from those within a distance r. <br>

  Other relevant work was on distance metrics, which are methods that calculate distances between two robot configurations. 

 #### Distance Metrics

   1. **Euclidean Distance** is the length of a line segment of two points. Equal weight is applied to every dimension. <br>
   2. **Center of Mass** is the Euclidean distance between the center of mass of two robots. <br>
   3. **Swept volume distance** is the volume swept by the robot through space while following the motion prescribed by the local planner. <br>


