---
layout: post
title: Module 0 - Readings
---


    This week, I read two required papers.  The first required reading was  How to Read a Paper (Keshav, 2007). According to Keshav, you do not have to read an entire research paper as the first instinct. Instead, tackle the paper in three “passes”. In the first pass, only read the abstract, titles and subtitles of each section and conclusion. In the second pass, only look at visual data such as graphs, diagrams, images, and captions. This foreshadows experimental results and can indicate if the data is realistic and reliable. The third pass consists of reading the entire paper, but is not required if it is not relevant to your research. 
    I applied Keshav’s three-pass reading algorithm to the robotics papers I found while researching, since not all of them were on motion planning. This made my technical readings significantly simpler and more efficient.
   
    <br>

    The second required reading I completed was A Journey of Robots, Molecules, Digital Actors, and Other Artifacts (Latombe, 1999). Latombe stated the basic motion planning problem is to find a collision-free path for a robot among rigid static obstacles, and is a purely geometric problem that looks simple but is computationally hard. In 1966, the first mobile robot system with motion planning capabilities, Shakey, was described by Nils J. Nilsson in the time of his tenure at the then Stanford Research Institution, presently known as SRI International. Nilsson introduced the visibility graph method, combined with the A* algorithm, to find the shortest collision-free path for Shakey, represented by a point amid polygonal obstacles (Nilsson, 1984). This robotic dot representation technique is popular in motion planning to this day, and will be explained in the Module 1.

    <br>

    In the late-1970s, the ideas of shrinking a robot to a point for collision avoidance (Udupa, 1977) and using a complete path planner for robots moving in translation among obstacles (Lozano-Oerez and Wesley, 1979) was proposed. The latter work led to the concept of the configuration space. In the mid-1980s, planners barely computed collision-free paths for planar objects moving in two-dimensional workspaces. Common challenges included limited tools and technology to represent complex geometric models, slow and computationally expensive distance computations from collision checks, and the often unpredictable relation between the number of samples and the probability of not finding a path with randomized planners. 

    <br>

    By the late-1990s, in nearly two decades, engineers significantly advanced motion planning research to better understand more complex problems where narrow passages exist (Amato et al, 1998), robots have kinematic and dynamic constraints, robots move in higher-dimensional spaces, optimized trajectory computations are required, and multiple robots are coordinated. Today, motion planning is applied to a plethora of fields such as industrial robotics for manufacturing, virtual prototyping, graphic animation, medical surgery, and computational biology. In addition to robotics, Parasol develops optimized algorithms for motion planning applications from fields such as computational biology, neuroscience, physics, and geophysics; computer-aided design (CAD); and virtual reality.

    