---
layout: post
title: Week 1: Motion Planning in Graphic Animation
---
Path planning is critical to developing high-quality, realistic video games. Gamers are less likely to reject video games where animated characters move
in a realistic, natural path in a virtual plane with many obstacles. One of the more complex problems that motion planning can solve in graphic animation
is when entities in games must move in groups. For example, in the Kingdom Hearts video games by Square Enix, the main player-controlled character 
navigates his path with two computer-controlled characters, Donald and Goofy. All characters must find collision-free paths when traveling as a 
flock without deviating too far from each other or making unnatural movements like walking towards an enemy or in manners that aren't human or animal-like.
This  can lead to characters getting stuck or walking through obstacles, instead of around them. 

Types of Motion Planning Algorithm Used in Video Games:

In graphic animation particularly used for video games, path planning is usually computed using a combination of grid-based A* techniques, 
local methods for obstacle avoidance, flocking for group motion, combinations of scripted motion, and waypoints. This field also applies 
Probabilistic Motion Planning to create a virtual road maps that can be navigated by the virtual videogame character entities. 
In the pre-processing phase, the roadmap computes all possible motions for the entities and is represented by a graph in which the nodes 
correspond to placements of an entity or entities and the edges represent collision-free paths between those placements. During the game, 
the roadmap is used for answering path planning querries. Unfortunately, the PRM algorithm does not usually compute high quality roadmaps 
and can take long detours.

My source for this answer is a research paper titled "Path Planning For Games" by Mark H. Overmars. 
He proposed that a better way to create better roadmaps by creating nodes that lie far away from obstacles and then sampling near 
to the Voroni diagram to increase the clearance in the C-space, and then adding additional edges to create cycles in the 
roadmap graph to avoid long detours. Instead of only finding a straight line between two nodes that are collision free, 
their method also takes in circle arcs. Their roadmaps can be used in the query phase without the need for any post-processing. 
Basically, it still used PRM but they added their own techniques to the algorithm to create better roadmaps. 
