---
layout: post
title: Module 2 - Experiments
---


# Experimenting with PRMs 
<br>   
I experimented with PRMs to discover how the number of samples and edges per vertex affect the quality and connectivity of a roadmap in two distinct environments: Topo, without narrow passage, and Narrow, with a narrow passage.

## Topo PRM Environment
Topo has six obstacles spaced out from each other. The PRM baseline had 25 samples and 5 edges per vertex and produced 27 nodes and 120 edges in 4.11 seconds, which produced a weakly connected roadmap due to the very few nodes and edges produced. I will experiment with PRM values when (A) samples are increased to 100, (B) edges are increased to 10, and (C) samples are increased to 100 and edges increased to 10.

**Hypothesis:** Larger samples and edges metrics in a PRM planner will generate more nodes and edges. The roadmap connectivity will improve but the  planning time will decrease.

### Topo Data

## Narrow PRM Environment  
The Narrow PRM baseline had 25 samples and 5 edges per vertex and produced 1,202 nodes and 11,562 edges in 33.7 seconds, which produced a strong, very well-connected roadmap due to the 1,000+ nodes and edges produced. I will experiment with PRM values when (A) samples are increased to 100, (B) edges are increased to 10, and (C) samples are increased to 100 and edges increased to 10.

Hypothesis: As samples and edges per vertex increase, the number of edges will decrease because the narrow passage created by the obstacles will affect the connectivity in the C-free space surrounding the obstacles, thus planning time will be faster.






# Experimenting with RRTs