---
layout: post
title: Week 2 - Module 1
---

On this week, I worked on the Parasol Laboratory crash course Module 1. I had to read the main sections of a text book called
Configuration Space. I learned about critical motion planning terms. 

The number of degrees of freedom of a robot is the dimension of the configuration space. DoFs also indicate the minimum number of parameters needed to specify the configuration. Types of DoF are translation, rotation, orientation, velocity, time.

We can count the DoF of an open-chain jointed robot (serial mechanism) by adding the DoF at each joint. I don’t think that all the numbers of degree of freedom is always countable for all types of robots though, but it is definitely countable for rigid robots. In a finite curb, you can count the DoFs. You can also count DoFs for closed-chain robots using Grübler's Formula. However, DoFs may not always be countable for soft robots.  For surgical needles, they have wires that change their orientation and length that is very hard to model and its DoFs are hard to count. 

The configuration of a robot system is a complete specification of the position of every point in that system. It is usually denoted by lowercase q.
The Configuration space "C-space" of a robot system is the space of all possible configurations of the system. A Configuration space Obstacle "C-Obst" is the set of configurations at which the robot intersects an obstacle in the workspace. The Free Configuration space "C-Free" is the set of configurations at which the robot does not intersect any obstacles. A ∂C-Obst is a set of placements where the robot contacts the obstacle but can still pass through it. 
