---
layout: post
title: Module 4 - Programming in C++
---

# Coding a Motion Planning Program
In this assignment, I followed complex instructions to code an MP Strategy that generates a roadmap with 4 nodes connected by 3 edges.: I worked in a 6-DOF environment where each coordinate is represented as a double. I used the 3D environment and boxy robot for my algorithm and visualized my results in vizmo.

## Part 1 >
1. Created MyStrategy.h file in src/MPLibrary/MPStrategies with this code.

2. Opened CfgTraits.h in src/Traits to include my header file with the other included MPStrategies as well as in the list<> of strategies.

**CfgTraits.h** 
    //mp strategies includes
    <... more code ...>
    #include "MPLibrary/MPStrategies/MyStrategy.h"


    //types of motion planning strategies available in our world
    typedef boost::mpl::list<
      <... more list items ...>
      MyStrategy<MPTraits>,  <... more list items ...>
        > MPStrategyMethodList;

Now, MyStrategy has been included in PPL and it successfully compiled with everything else when I ran make pmpl -j2 from src.

4. Open CfgExamples.xml and add a MyStrategy node with its label, then go to the Solver node and change its mpStrategyLabel to “MyStrategy”. I like changing my baseFilename to match the experiment I’m doing so that my files get appropriate names and don’t get mixed up.

CfgExamples.xml >
                        <!-- My Strategy-->
                            <MyStrategy label="MyStrategy"/>
                        </MPStrategies>
                          <Solver mpStrategyLabel="MyStrategy" seed="12345678"
                            baseFilename="MyStrategy" vizmoDebug="true"/>

## Part 2 >
I executed PPL with the CfgExamples.xml file.
aec4@blackwidowers:~/PMPL/pmpl/src/Examples$ ../pmpl -f CfgExamples.xml
Automatically computed position resolution as 0.01
MPLibrary is solving with MPStrategyMethod labeled MyStrategy using seed 12345678.
MyStrategy::MyStrategy::Initialize: 0 sec
: 0 sec

I was able to see that my Blank method output a file:
aec4@blackwidowers:~/PMPL/pmpl/src/Examples$ ls MyS
MyStrategy.12345678.query.vd  

This means that the motion planning program was set up correctly. Now, I have a blank, testable method that is ready to build on!

