---
layout: post
title: Module 0
---

This week, I worked on the Parasol Laboratory crash course Module 0. For Module 0, I read two required papers:
How to Read a Paper (Keshav, 2007) and Motion Planning: A Journey of Robots, Molecules, Digital Actors, and Other Artifacts (Latombe, 1999). I 
created my own Parasol Laboratoy web page. To access my professional website, click [here](https://parasollab.web.illinois.edu/people/aec4/). I also attended the weekly crash-course meetings, which occur on Mondays and Thursdays.

On "How to Read a Paper", I was surprised to see some of the different ways that exist to read a paper. There seems to be an algorithm for everything,
even on how to read research papers methodologically, efficiently, and effectively. I learned that you don't HAVE TO read a research paper word for word from start to finish right off the bat. Instead, tackle a research paper in passes. In the first pass, you only read the abstract, the titles and subtitles of each section, and the conclusion. This should take about 5-10 minutes. The second pass is to look at all the graphs, results diagrams, images and all the captions. This shows details on what the research will be experimenting, if the data seems realisitc and reliable, and can give you a clue if this is a good research paper. The third pass is actually reading the paper, but the cool part is that you can stop reading it anytime if you think the content is not relevant to your research area. I've applied this way of thinking when reading my research papers. Giving a first and second pass on my required readings before tackling the enitre thing has made technical reading much easier for me.

On "Motion Planning: A Journey of Robots, Molecules, Digital Actors, and Other Artifacts" (Latombe, 1999), I learned about the history of motion planning and how it has many applications, not just robotics. Motion planning is used for graphic animation and videogames, medical surgery, virtual protoyping, manufacturing, computational biology. The most known motion-planning algorithms are the Probabilistic Road Map (PRM) / PRM*, RRT /  RRT*, and Multi-Agent Motion Planning (MAMP). Applied search and Distance computation algorithms include the A* algorithm and Dijkstra's algorithm.

This week, I also had to briefly research one of the motion-plannig applications I listed above. I chose to learn more about
graphic animation, specifically in video games. 

Motion Planning in Graphic Animation:

Path planning is critical to developing high-quality, realistic video games. Gamers are less likely to reject video games where animated characters move in a realistic, natural path in a virtual plane with many obstacles. One of the more complex problems that motion planning can solve in graphic animation is when entities in games must move in groups. For example, in the Kingdom Hearts video games by Square Enix, the main player-controlled character navigates his path with two computer-controlled characters, Donald and Goofy. All characters must find collision-free paths when traveling as a flock without deviating too far from each other or making unnatural movements like walking towards an enemy or in manners that aren't human or animal-like. This  can lead to characters getting stuck or walking through obstacles, instead of around them. 

Types of Motion Planning Algorithm Used:

In graphic animation particularly used for video games, path planning is usually computed using a combination of grid-based A* techniques, local methods for obstacle avoidance, flocking for group motion, combinations of scripted motion, and waypoints. This field also applies Probabilistic Motion Planning to create a virtual road maps that can be navigated by the virtual videogame character entities. In the pre-processing phase, the roadmap computes all possible motions for the entities and is represented by a graph in which the nodes correspond to placements of an entity or entities and the edges represent collision-free paths between those placements. During the game, the roadmap is used for answering path planning querries. Unfortunately, the PRM algorithm does not usually compute high quality roadmaps and can take long detours.

My source for this answer is a research paper titled "Path Planning For Games" by Mark H. Overmars. He proposed that a better way to create better roadmaps by creating nodes that lie far away from obstacles and then sampling near to the Voroni diagram to increase the clearance in the C-space, and then adding additional edges to create cycles in the roadmap graph to avoid long detours. Instead of only finding a straight line between two nodes that are collision free, their method also takes in circle arcs. Their roadmaps can be used in the query phase without the need for any post-processing. Basically, it still used PRM but they added their own techniques to the algorithm to create better roadmaps. 
